# MST_fMRI_Analysis
Tiny plugins to analyze the fMRI data acquired in our MST exp.

These are tiny plugins (or just simple codes) used for fMRI analysis in our experiments (in press).
to use these plugins, pls follow the procedure listed below.

0. preprocessing the data
   put your raw DICOM in the following files:
   
fieldmap: part_1\2\DICOM
1 run: part_1\nodummy\3\DICOM (9102 files/slices)
2 run: part_1\nodummy\4\DICOM (9102 files/slices)
3 run: part_1\nodummy\5\DICOM (9102 files/slices)
T1_w:  part_1\6\DICOM (192 files)
4 run: part_1\nodummy\7\DICOM (9102 files/slices)
5 run: part_1\nodummy\8\DICOM (9102 files/slices)
6 run: part_1\nodummy\9\DICOM (9102 files/slices)
  
   prepare 3 BIDS structure folders:
   
sub-xx\anat\         ——> to convert T1 image
sub-xx\func\         ——> to convert all runs fMRI
sub-xx\func\fmap\         ——> to convert B0
   
   open MRIcroGL, convert these DICOM files to .nii (WARNING: not .nii.gz!) in the corresponding folders. Remember to change the "output filename" to "%p_%s_%d"
   Waiting for 10 minutes. Correct names are listed as below:
   
IPCAS2023014_Lijuan_part_6_ABI1_t1iso_fspgr.nii
IPCAS2023014_Lijuan_part_3_task1.nii
IPCAS2023014_Lijuan_part_4_task2.nii
IPCAS2023014_Lijuan_part_5_task3.nii
IPCAS2023014_Lijuan_part_7_task4.nii
IPCAS2023014_Lijuan_part_8_task5.nii
IPCAS2023014_Lijuan_part_9_task6.nii
   
1. turn the MST file into a .csv file
   When a participant completed his/her/you-know-who's exp, the psychopy programm would generate a MST_ID.txt
   open the file, you will see such sentences:

%MST Task
%Started at 2023-09-07 15:21:28.464731
%ID: XXXX
%Duration: 3.0
%ISI: 1.0
%Set: 6
%Lag set: AllShort_Set1
%Order: 19
%Respkeys: 12 12 12
%Self-paced: False
%Two-choice: False
%Rnd-mode: -1 with seed 9004
%Raw params: {'default'}

%Task started at 2023-09-07 15:22:20.236557
%Trial,Stim,Cond,Lag,LBin,StartT,Resp,Corr,RT
1,Set 6\012a.jpg,0,-1,2,0.000,3,1,1.199          ——> we only want the data start at this line.

   Merely copy the data of each run, paste them into different files. Remember to delete the set and RT column (we only need 7 columns): {1	0	-1	2	0.000	3	1} (corresponding to the data listed above)

1_events.csv
2_events.csv
...

   Generally speaking, there would be 6 files (1-6 run). if NAs generated by PsychoPy3 remain in the csv file, delete them. the blanks would be considered as "nan" in MATLAB.

2. open condsplit.m in MATLAB.
   Set the working path to ..\sub-xx\
   Run the condsplit.m
   Generating 6 run_ID_bins.txt
   This is a 13 bins version. Later we would upload a 10 bins version.
3. open txt2tsv.R in Rstudio
   open the txt2tsv.R
   run the first sentence (change the pathway in this sentence to your current ..\sub-xx\)
   click the settings button, go to the current working path
   run all. then there would be 6 .tsv files could be used in CONN (gPPI) and SPM12 (design matrix)
   Here is the format of such .tsv files:

ONSET	DURATION	TRIAL_TYPE
0	2	5
6	2	5
12	2	5
...

  When you want to design the matrix, just open a blank excel and paste each run's .tsv in it. Sort function in excel would help a lot in writing the onsets and condition names.
  Also, if you expect to do gPPI, just move the .tsv files into ..\sub-xx\func\

Thanks for focusing on our exp!



#2023.10.1 update 1

Happy birthday to our great PRC! Glad to contribute to the the domain of Cognitive Neuroscience in China.
Here is the whole pre-processing procedure code and how to use it:
% Firstly, check reg and make sure that all the anat (part 6) and func (part 3-5, 7-9) have the same origin, which locates at AC. If not, reorient them. It will cost you 5 mins.
% Secondly, copy the 'run1stlevel.m' and paste it in a .docx file. search and replace all the ID (number 90xx) in the code. i.e., the uploaded file focuses on 9009, you may replace it with 9010.
% Thirdly, copy the revised codes and paste it in 'run1stlevel.m'. SPM fmri-batch-load file-'run1stlevel.m'-Run it.
   slice timing: 37 slices, TR = 2, TA = 1.9459, order (top-down interleaved) = {37:-2:1 36:-2:1}, reference = 19
   realign (Est & Res): quality = 0.9, FWHM = 5, resliced = All+mean
   coregistration (Est & Res): same as Andy's Brain Book
   segment: save bias corrected, east asian template, deformation fields = forward
   normalization (write): voxel [2 2 2], default bounding [-78 -112 -50; 78 76 85] (Yan's DPABI bounding [-90 -126 -72; 90 90 108] is also suitable)
   smooth: FWHM = [6 6 6]. According to previous literature, 3.5*(1.5-2.5) is the best range for smoothing, so [5 5 5], [7 7 7], especially [8 8 8] are proper alternatives.
apparently, we didn't use fieldmap to correct the loss of PFC fMRI. if you want to try, choose 'realign and unwrap' then follow this site's guideline: https://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk/spm/toolbox/fieldmap/
% Finally, after the 'run1stlevel.m' ends, run 'est1stlevel.m' and get the matrix construction code, run it in batch. Note: you should have run 'condsplit.m' and 'txt2tsv.R' and got 6 events.tsv files before this step!
